Welcome come back in this lesson we're going to take what we've learned in the previous lessons and
we're going to build out a game.
So this game has to do with remembering a series of colors.
So basically the game starts say what it flashes for different colors in a roll and then it's up to
you to select the colors.
You can remove ones if you select the wrong ones and we can see that at the end there is an analysis.
So you see that you are wrong.
You guessed blue red blue green red red.
So that's what our guess was it was red blue green green.
So this is what we want to build out so yellow yellow blue yellow.
So this is picking that at random and we see that this time where.
Correct.
So that's the basics of the game it's a really straightforward game and we're going to present us with
a pattern and then we just need to remember that pattern and input pattern.
So let's begin.
So first thing that we need is we need.
So we've got our message area here so we can just reuse what we've got here and next let's create that
input button to start the game.
So this is going to be our starting point.
So this is just a regular button we'll give it a value of start.
And then the next clock will OD on click to it and launch start.
So this is where the user comes in and they get the starting initiation on the game.
So what do we need to do here.
We need to launch the game basically under start.
So let's set up the start function.
So we're going to run this game.
We're going to create basically we need an array with some colors.
So color array and then let's create that
so we're going to make this game completely dynamic so we can add in any number of colors.
Let's do red.
And we're going to do the same ones that are available within the screen.
So red green blue and yellow.
And this is actually going to be dynamic because if we add in more colors then we can have more options
within the game as well.
So the thing that we need to do is set up some default variables.
So the first variable we need a couple arrays so we need one array that is going to hold the actual
sequence as it's being presented.
So that's going to be building out as it's being presented.
And we need a second array that's going to hold our guess.
So the players yes.
So those are the two arrays that we need right off the bat in the beginning.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to build out our random sequence from this array.
So we're going to build out essentially the solution and then from that solution we're going to launch
it and we're going to show all those random colors.
So let's set up our loop and loop is going to start out as X. And it's going to loop through while X
is less than four because we want to set the limit to 4 and we can always adjust this number as well
later on.
So we're not actually going by the length of the array because as I said we don't make as dynamic as
possible.
And if we do it by the length of the array then our sequence can only be limited to the number of items
in the array.
So we don't want to limit ourselves.
So next let's create a random variable.
So this one is random and we just call it our.
And this one is same thing that we did before where we pick out a random item from the array.
So this was all using all of that math that we saw earlier and then just simply picking out a random
index value that we can then link to the array and pull back a random item from the array.
So remember we have to multiply it by the length of the array.
So that's color array length.
So that's the last that we need to do.
So that basically gives us a random item and we want to add it into the first array.
So this is the range where that first sequence is going to go.
So all we need to do is push that color into the array.
So there we go.
So we've got our array built.
And next thing that we need to do is we need to set our timeout counter.
So this is where we're actually going to get when we start where we get the sequence of all of these
colors showing up.
And this is going to be actually dependent on this brand new array that we just built.
So let's open that up and let's set our timer so we need to have a global placeholder because we also
want to have the ability to access the timer and if we want to get rid of the timer then we want to
have the ability to to get rid of it so I'm just going to call it mighty and mighty.
We don't have to have any values in it.
So when we get down to starting the game let's grab my t and let's set timeout.
And so basically this as we saw earlier this will time out a particular function and we know when to
just set the time.
So the function that we want to launch is going to be go white and we want to time it out.
Now at 200 seconds.
So next to that we need to do.
We know that we need to create a function so go white and the reason that I have one that says go white
is because I want the screen area the play area to go white in between the colors.
Otherwise we would just have all the colors and if we had a repeating color we wouldn't be able to distinguish
between the two.
So that's what I wanted to add that one in and this one is going to really do pretty much the same thing
that we're doing with an actual color one.
But it's going to just show a white background.
So let's I have We're going to have our game play area and output.
So let's set a variable.
And this one.
So we're going to grab this one in the documents so it get element by id and grab that one so that we
can use the object within our script.
So now what we need to do here is we need to output and let's update the style of output.
So we saw this earlier when we had access to style and we can set the background color.
So what we want to do is set the background color to be white
so this will initial it and started of white.
And there's another value that we need to set.
And this is going to be one that counts how many times we've actually run this.
So I'm going to set another variable and I'm going to call it loop and initially loop is going to be
zero.
And we also should set loop at zero.
Once we start because this is going to be basically counting how many times that we're actually looping
through our
image display.
So over here once we increase that so let's increase it by 1.
So we know that we can move to the next one
and this one is going to be.
So we're going to set the timeout and we're going to move to actually we don't need the loop here yet.
We're going to go white go color.
And then over here is where we set up a Go color.
And so now we're setting up the function where we're actually going to display the color.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and update and show update the background color within
go color to whatever the color is the current color of the real item.
And remember we're starting out at zero with loop.
So that's going to give us the first item in the array and then that's why also we need to increment
loop.
So good pause the video.
That solution into the script and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So to update the background color all we need to do well you need to copy quite a bit of what we did
earlier and we know that we've got the background color within an array.
So we've got an array one and we're going to use the variable.
Loop that's going to actually give us the item and then once we saw that we know that we can move to
the next one and then the next thing that we want to do is we want to have the next the next timeout.
So basically we're going back to white and we're going to show the white color.
And so for the color itself we might want to keep it on a longer.
So for this instance we're going to launch it after one second.
So the white interval will be shorter than this one.
And there's one other thing that we need to add in and this is going to be how we can actually break
out of this loop.
So we know that once we increment the loop we don't want to go.
We don't want Loopt to actually go beyond the length of the time out.
So for the length of the array the available elements within the array.
So this is where we need to grow up the length of the array and make sure that if loop is actually greater
than or equal to that then we're going to clear a we're going to clear the time out.
So let's clear that time out.
And the way that we clear the time out is we've already set it as an object.
So you can just grab that and cleared.
So now let's try out our code and before we actually try it out we do need to actually show our output
because right now it's a little bit small.
We don't have any styling added in as of yet.
So let's quickly before we launch let's add some styling in.
So let's do a with.
So this will give us an area.
So I believe we're just 2 400 pics by 400 pics.
And let's do a display.
So do a display of block and also maybe you can add in a border so just to make sure that we actually
see where it's located support or block.
So go back and refresh it.
So there's our area and now we're starting the loop.
So we're seeing that we've got all of the colors and then it comes to the end.
So right now the game should be the loops would be over.
And we've cleared the time out and then we can launch it one more time as well.
So we want to do that in the second part of this exercise.
We're going to be building out the ability for the user to actually make selections.